Tokenizers:

3 types:
    Word based, sub-word based, character based

word based - tokenizer implemented in tokenizer.py is word based tokenizer. i.e. each word is converted into a token.
             issue: what happens when out of vocabulary (OOV) words appear in sentences.
                    different meaning of similar words [boys, boy] --> they may have vector embeddings that are far away although similar in meaning

Character based - Individual characters are tokenized.
                  Solves OOV problem. 
                  issue: Very small vocabulary. Every language has fixed number of characters (english ~256)
                         Meaning associated with words is completely.
                         The tokenized sequence is longer that original raw text.

Sub-word based - Byte Pair Encoding (BPE) is an example of sub-word tokenizer.
                 Rules:
                        1. Do not split frequently used words into smaller sub words
                        2. Split rare words into smaller, meaningful subwords

                 Eg. "boy" shouldn't be split. 
                     "boys" should be split into "boy" & "s"

                 This method helps model in understanding words with same root word.
                    Eg. Tokenizer, Tokens, etc. 
                
                It also helps model learn that "tokenization" and "modernization" are made up of different root words but have
                same suffix "ization" and are used in same syntactic situations.



Byte Pair Encoding (BPE):
            
            Most common pair of consecutive bytes of data is replaced with a byte that does not occur in data.

            Eg. Original data: aaabdaaabac

                1. byte pair "aa" occurs the most. We will replace it with Z as Z does not occur in data.

                Compressed data - ZabdZabac

                2. Next common byte pair is "ab". We will replace this by Y

                Compressed data - ZYdZYac

                3. Next common byte pair is "ZY", we will replace this by W

                Compressed data - WdWac



